Metadata schema guidelines for helm charts (#316)
kyma-project/community: guidelines/coding-standards/helm.md

1. Backup all existing implementations. 
2. Remove the old CRD.
3. Run the upgrade.
4. Restore all CRD implementations. 

## Defining metadata schema for Kyma charts

> This section cover minimal requirements and conventions of metadata schema definition for Kyma charts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section covers the minimal requirements and conventions of metadata schema definition for Kyma charts. 
```

> Schema should define important configuration parameters (not all parameters listed in `values.yaml` files) from customer perspective and which can vary depending on installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schema should define important configuration parameters (not all parameters listed in `values.yaml` files) from a customer perspective and which can vary depending on installation.
```

> The schema should define important configuration parameters (not all parameters listed in `values.yaml` files) from a customer perspective and which can vary depending on installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The schema defines configuration parameters important from a customer perspective, as opposed to all parameters you can find in the `values.yaml` files. These parameters can vary depending on installation.
```

> 1. Each chart should have a metadata file with name `values.schema.json` placed where charts `values.yaml` (same for sub-charts) file placed. E.g. see screenshot below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Each chart should have a metadata file with name `values.schema.json` placed where the chart's `values.yaml` (same for sub-charts) file is placed. E.g. see screenshot below.
```

> 1. Each chart should have a metadata file with name `values.schema.json` placed where the chart's `values.yaml` (same for sub-charts) file is placed. E.g. see screenshot below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Make sure to place the `values.schema.json` metadata file where the chart's `values.yaml` file resides. See the screenshot for reference.
```

   ![Example 1](../../assets/metadata-schema.png)

> 2. Each schema should define `desription` for detailed information about schema and helm chart. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. For each schema, define a description including detailed information about schema and Helm chart. 
```

> 3. Schema definition does not support dot `(.)` notation which mean if you have nested value properties schema definition should define object structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Schema definition does not support dot `(.)` notation. This means that if you have nested value properties, your schema definition must define the object structure.
```

> E.g.  helm chart value `.Values.loki.port` should be modeled in schema example below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the **.Values.loki.port** property for a sample object structure defined within a schema. 
```

> 4. Each schema `object` definition should define at least a `description` to explain configuration section

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. For each schema `object`, define a **description**  to explain the purpose of the schema definition.
```

> 5. Each configuration property should declare:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. For each configuration property, declare:
```

>   - A `description` to explain purpose of configuration property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A **description** to explain the configuration purpose.
```

>   - A `default` to provide default value of configuration property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A **default** value.
```

>   - A `type` to declare data type of configuration property value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A data **type**.
```

>   - A `examples` if required, a list of possible example values, e.g. storage types supported (see example schema below)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -  An **examples** property to list of possible example values, such as supported storage types. This property is optional.
```

> Example chart values.yaml file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example chart `values.yaml` file looks as follows:

```

1. Backup all existing implementations. 
2. Remove the old CRD.
3. Run the upgrade.
4. Restore all CRD implementations. 

## Defining metadata schema for Kyma charts

This section covers the minimal requirements and conventions of metadata schema definition for Kyma charts. 

The schema defines configuration parameters important from a customer perspective, as opposed to all parameters you can find in the `values.yaml` files. These parameters can vary depending on installation.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When defining a schema for a Kyma chart, follow these guidelines: 
```

> 1. Make sure to place the `values.schema.json` metadata file where the chart's `values.yaml` file resides. See the screenshot for reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Make sure to place the `values.schema.json` metadata file where the chart's `values.yaml` file resides. See the screenshot for reference.
```

   ![Example 1](../../assets/metadata-schema.png)

> 2. For each schema, define a description including detailed information about schema and Helm chart. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For each schema, define a description including detailed information about schema and Helm chart. 
```

> 3. Schema definition does not support dot `(.)` notation. This means that if you have nested value properties, your schema definition must define the object structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Schema definition does not support dot `(.)` notation. This means that if you have nested value properties, your schema definition must define the object structure.
```

> See the **.Values.loki.port** property for a sample object structure defined within a schema. 

Author: it's always start with .Values....

> See the **.Values.loki.port** property for a sample object structure defined within a schema. 

Reviewer 2: Got it 👍

> 4. For each schema object, define a **description**  to explain its purpose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For each schema object, define a **description**  to explain its purpose.
```

> 4. For each schema `object`, define a **description**  to explain the purpose of the schema definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. For each schema object, define a **description**  to explain its purpose.
```

> 5. For each configuration property, declare:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For each configuration property, declare:
```

>   - A **description** to explain the configuration purpose.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A **description** property to explain the configuration purpose.
```

>   - A **default** value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A **default** property and its value.
```

  - A data **type**.

>   -  An **examples** property to list of possible example values, such as supported storage types. This property is optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - An **examples** property to list of possible example values, such as supported storage types. This property is optional.
```

An example chart `values.yaml` file looks as follows:

```yaml
loki:
  port: 3100
  nameOverride: loki
  
  config:
    auth_enabled: false
    store: inmemory

promtail:
  port: 3101
  nameOverride: promtail
```

> Example schema definition for values.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example `values.yaml` file looks as follows:
```

> An example `values.yaml` file looks as follows:

Reviewer 3: It should be "values.schema.json"
